add cluster resource models docs (#139)
karmada-io/website: docs/userguide/scheduling/cluster-resource-models.md

---
title: Schedule based on Cluster Resource Models
---

## Background

In the scheduling progress, the `karmada-scheduler` now makes decisions as per a bunch of factors, one of the factors is the resource details of the cluster.

For the purpose above, we introduced `ResourceSummary` to the [Cluster API](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/pkg/apis/cluster/types.go).

For example:
```
resourceSummary:
    allocatable:
      cpu: "4"
      ephemeral-storage: 206291924Ki
      hugepages-1Gi: "0"
      hugepages-2Mi: "0"
      memory: 16265856Ki
      pods: "110"
    allocated:
      cpu: 950m
      memory: 290Mi
      pods: "11"
```

However, the `ResourceSummary` is not precise enough, it mechanically counts the resources on all nodes, but ignores the fragment resources. For example, a cluster with 2000 nodes, 1 core CPU left on each node.

> From the `ResourceSummary`, we get that there are 2000 core CPU left for the cluster, but actually this cluster cannot run pods that require 2000 core CPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the `ResourceSummary`, we get that there are 2000 core CPU left for the cluster, 
but actually, this cluster cannot run any pod that requires CPU greater than 1 core.
```
Unusually, a pod requires 2000 core.

> Therefore, we introduce a `resource models` for each cluster which records the resource portraint of each node. Karmada will collect node and pod information for each cluster. After calculation, this node will be divided into the appropriate resource model configured by the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, we introduce a `resource models` for each cluster that records the resource portrait of each node. Karmada will collect node and pod information for each cluster. After calculation, this node will be divided into the appropriate resource model configured by the users.
```

## Start to use cluster resource models

Now `cluster resource model` is in alpha state. To start this feature, you need to turn on the `CustomizedClusterResourceModeling` feature gate in `karmada-scheduler`, `karmada-aggregated-server` and `karmada-controller-manager`.

For example, you can use the command below to turn on the feature gate in the `karmada-controller-manager`.

```shell
kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.kube/karmada.config --context karmada-host edit deploy/karmada-controller-manager -nkarmada-system
```

```
- command:
        - /bin/karmada-controller-manager
        - --kubeconfig=/etc/kubeconfig
        - --bind-address=0.0.0.0
        - --cluster-status-update-frequency=10s
        - --secure-port=10357
        - --feature-gates=PropagateDeps=true,Failover=true,GracefulEviction=true,CustomizedClusterResourceModeling=true
        - --v=4

```

> After that, When a cluster is connected to the Karmada control plane, Karmada will automatically sets up a generic model for the cluster. You can see it in `cluster.spec`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, When a cluster is registered to the Karmada control plane, Karmada will automatically set up a generic model for the cluster. You can see it in `cluster.spec`.
```

> After that, When a cluster is connected to the Karmada control plane, Karmada will automatically sets up a generic model for the cluster. You can see it in `cluster.spec`.

Author: when a cluster

Assume that there is a Pod which want to schedule it to one of the clusters managed by Karmada with the same cluster resource models.

Member1 is like:
```
spec:
...
  - grade: 2
    ranges:
    - max: "4"
      min: "2"
      name: cpu
    - max: 32Gi
      min: 16Gi
      name: memory
  - grade: 3
    ranges:
    - max: "8"
      min: "4"
      name: cpu
    - max: 64Gi
      min: 32Gi
      name: memory
...
...
status:
  - count: 1
    grade: 2
  - count: 6
    grade: 3   
```

Member2 is like:
```
spec:
...
  - grade: 2
    ranges:
    - max: "4"
      min: "2"
      name: cpu
    - max: 32Gi
      min: 16Gi
      name: memory
  - grade: 3
    ranges:
    - max: "8"
      min: "4"
      name: cpu
    - max: 64Gi
      min: 32Gi
      name: memory
...
...
status:
  - count: 4
    grade: 2
  - count: 4
    grade: 3   
```

Member3 is like:
```
spec:
...
  - grade: 6
    ranges:
    - max: "64"
      min: "32"
      name: cpu
    - max: 512Gi
      min: 256Gi
      name: memory
...
...
status:
  - count: 1

>     grade: 7   

Author: grade：6

```

Assume that the Pod's request is 3C 20Gi. All nodes that meet Grade 2 and above meet this requirement. Considering the amount of available resources, the scheduler prefers to schedule the Pod to member3.

> | Cluster                   | member1                               | member2         | member3               |

Author: need typo
